#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Although the purposes of animal communication are staggeringly numerous,
 the apparatus by which they are produced seems to be largely conserved
 across mammal and bird species.
 This apparatus consists of membranous vocal fold tissues stretch across
 the larynx (or syrinx in birds).
 This tissue attaches to laryngeal muscles, which can alter its tension
 and degree of adduction.
 When air is forced past them by the lungs, the vocal folds oscillate and
 emit audible sounds, the frequency of which are determined by the vocal
 fold tension .
 Across species, the fundamental frequency of mammalian vocalizations obey
 a power law of the form 
\begin_inset Formula $f\propto M^{-0.4}$
\end_inset

, where M is the species average mass in kg.
 This scaling law agrees well with the audible rat vocalizations of 2-3
 khz.
 However, many rodent species have the somewhat remarkable ability to break
 this scaling by over an order of magnitude and vocalize into the ultrasonic
 range.
 Typical rat ultrasonic vocalizations consists of pure tones in the 20-80
 khz range.
 This suggests the production mechanism for these calls is fundamentally
 different than that of their sonic counterparts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although the rodent ultrasound production mechanism has not been widely
 investigated, several studies on rats suggest that these callas are actually
 the result of a whistle mechanism, in which is forced through a tight aperture
 of constant radius, created by adduction of the vocal folds.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A hole tone is a high pitched call that is generated when a stream of air
 issues from a circular hole at velocity 
\begin_inset Formula $U$
\end_inset

 and strikes symmetrically on a hole in a neighboring plate.
 Raleigh conjectured that pressure fluctuations generated at the second
 hole provide a feedback mechanism by causing pulsations in the flow rate
 that excite antisymmetric instabilities of the jet.
 At large Reynolds numbers, these instabilities grow into a succession of
 vortex rings that interact periodically with the second hole.
 Hole tones are known to exhibit discontinuous frequency jumps, when disturbance
s of different modes exchange stability.
 Although a quantitative theory of this process does not not currently exist.
 It is known that in between jumps the emitted frequency obeys the relation
 
\begin_inset Formula $\frac{fL}{U_{c}}\approx n-\frac{1}{4}$
\end_inset

, where 
\begin_inset Formula $L$
\end_inset

 is the length in between the plates, 
\begin_inset Formula $U_{c}\approx U$
\end_inset

 is the convection velocity of the vortex rings, and n is the mode number
 of the disturbance.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
